---
sidebar:
  nav: "docs"

---
The Age of Reason is a work by English and American political activist Thomas Paine (pictured), arguing for the philosophical position of deism. Following in the tradition of eighteenth-century British deism, it challenges institutionalized religion and the legitimacy of the Bible. It was published in three parts in 1794, 1795, and 1807, and became a best-seller in the United States, where it caused a short-lived deistic revival. Fearing its revolutionary ideas, the British government prosecuted printers and book-sellers who tried to publish and distribute it. The Age of Reason highlights what Paine saw as corruption among Christian churches and criticizes their efforts to acquire political power. Paine advocates reason over revelation, leading him to reject miracles and to view the Bible as "an ordinary piece of literature rather than as a divinely inspired text". He promotes natural religion and argues for the existence of a creator-God. Most of Paine's arguments had long been available to educated people, but his engaging, irreverent and inexpensive pamphlets made deism appealing and accessible to a mass audience. (Full article...)
Recently featured:

    Thaddeus McCotter presidential campaign, 2012 Capella Barry Voight

    Archive By email More featured articles

Did you know...
Near-Earth asteroid 4179 Toutatis
Near-Earth asteroid 4179 Toutatis

    ... that the search for near-Earth asteroids large enough to cause a global catastrophe (example pictured) is almost complete, and efforts now focus on smaller asteroids?
    ... that Archibald Cary Smith designed the first American iron yacht?
    ... that the land snail genus Vatusila was named after a Fijian tribe known for killing and eating the missionary Thomas Baker in 1867?
    ... that philologist Caroline Brady wrote about the words used for weapons and warriors in the Anglo-Saxon poem Beowulf?
    ... that Kennington tube station, opened in 1890, is a listed building and the only one from the world's first underground electric railway to retain its original appearance?
    ... that Victorian physician and discoverer of arsenic in beer, Ernest Reynolds, did not believe in over-reliance on medical technology?
    ... that the Thai Buddhist temple Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen organizes blood donations every three months?
    ... that Henry Liebman hates "Henry Liebman's Noodle Soup"?

    Archive Start a new article Nominate an article


In the news
Vladimir Putin in 2017
Vladimir Putin

    Vladimir Putin (pictured) is re-elected President of Russia.
    Brazilian politician and human rights activist Marielle Franco is killed in a shooting in Rio de Janeiro.
    In response to the poisoning of Sergei Skripal with a nerve agent, the United Kingdom expels 23 Russian diplomats.
    British physicist and cosmologist Stephen Hawking dies at the age of 76.

Ongoing: Rif Dimashq offensive · Turkish military operation in Afrin · UK higher education strike
Recent deaths:

    Katie Boyle Peter George Peterson Ayaz Soomro Sudan (white rhino)

    Nominate an article

On this day...

March 23: Pakistan Day (1956)
Mir space station
Mir space station

    1848 – Scottish settlers on the John Wickliffe, captained by William Cargill, arrived at what is now Port Chalmers in the Otago Region of New Zealand.
    1888 – Led by William McGregor, ten football clubs met in London for the purpose of founding the English Football League, the oldest league competition in world football.
    1908 – American diplomat Durham Stevens, an employee of Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was assassinated in San Francisco by two Korean American immigrants unhappy with his recent support of the increasing Japanese presence in Korea.
    1994 – Aeroflot Flight 593 crashed into a hillside in Kemerovo Oblast, Russia, after the pilot's 16-year-old son, while seated at the controls, had unknowingly disabled the autopilot, killing all 75 people on board.
    2001 – The Russian Federal Space Agency deorbited the 15-year-old space station Mir (pictured), causing it to reenter the Earth's atmosphere and break up over the Pacific Ocean.

Pierre-Simon Laplace (b. 1749) · Said Nursî (d. 1960) · Kangana Ranaut (b. 1986)
More anniversaries:

    March 22 March 23 March 24

    Archive By email List of historical anniversaries

From today's featured list
American singer Selena released twenty-seven official singles, seven promotional singles, and made five guest vocalist appearances. Her career began as the lead vocalist of Los Dinos in 1980. In 1987, her cover of Ritchie Valens' "La Bamba" peaked at number 19 on the United States Billboard Hot Latin Songs chart, her first entry. She signed with EMI Latin nine years later as a solo artist though her band continued to tour with her. Selena appeared on "Buenos Amigos" with Salvadoran singer Álvaro Torres. The track peaked at number one on the U.S. Hot Latin Songs chart in 1991, the singer's first number one song. Selena's live recording entitled Live (1993) contained three studio tracks and produced two top five U.S. singles, "No Debes Jugar" and "La Llamada". After her collaboration with the Barrio Boyzz on the single "Donde Quiera Que Estés" peaked at number one on the Hot Latin Songs chart, Selena released her fourth studio album Amor Prohibido (1994). The album continued the singer's streak of US number one singles with "Amor Prohibido", "Bidi Bidi Bom Bom", "No Me Queda Más", and The Pretenders' cover "Fotos y Recuerdos". The latter peaked at number one posthumously following the shooting death of Selena on March 31, 1995. (Full list...)
Recently featured:

    NBA All-Star Game Most Valuable Player Award Laureus World Sports Award for Sportswoman of the Year Transformers: Robots in Disguise (2015 TV series) episodes

    Archive More featured lists
